
To whomever it may concern,

My name is Sumeru Chatterjee and I have been developing iOS Software for about 8 years. I have developed iOS Apps since the releases of the first of Apple iOS 2.0

I first started developing iOS Apps in when I was in college in late 2009 to help my friend's startup and fell in love with the platform. Since then I have developed iOS apps for companies in the United States. Netherlands, and UK. The apps that I have worked on have millions of users and almost all iOS users in the Netherlands have used at least one of my apps. I have also started my own company(LLC) and developed a few apps under it. As of now I work at Ebay as a contractor and help them deliver classified apps in 11 different countries. Primarily I singlehandedly maintain and develop the 2dehands.be app which is the biggest classified platform in Belgium.

I possess a strong engineering background with a Masters Degree in Computer science from the University of Florida in Gainesville, FL. To make sure that the software I deliver is robust and maintainable, I also develop a lot of unit and integration testing that are run on each commit on an integration server such as Jenkins (I have experience in setting this up as well). In addition to make the job of QA easier I also write automated UI tests with a framework called Frank that run a lot of simple user interface tests on each build. In addition I have also developed some snapshot tests that use image tools to compare the snapshot images across versions of the app.

For prioritizing my tasks and setting goals I work with a agile/scrum process where I sit down with the business and product owners to decide what and when to deliver based on our estimates. Since I have been doing this for a while my estimates are usually pretty accurate and I almost always deliver on time without any bugs or issues. Sometimes I can also rapidly develop a user interface together with the design team so that they can get a feel of how it will work in production. 

I believe that a craftsman is only as smart as his tools, therefore I have a good set of tools that help me develop fast and not make any mistakes. Some of the tools I use on a daily basis are Xcode for development, AppCode for refactoring, Sourcetree for visually looking at changes and GIT for source control and making different development and release branches. All the commits I make are tagged with a ticket number from JIRA so that each line of code has an associated task with it and can be tracked down in the future. Lately I have also used a tool called fastlane to automatically deliver my builds to the iTunes app store. In addition I also have a lot of small scripts that I have written in the past that help me solve some complex problems very quickly.

An iOS app is just a front end in most cases and sometimes I have had to design a restful JSON API that the iOS app will consume depending on its needs. I have done work at Ebay regarding this and have helped create a restful API called PAPI that all the different classified businesses can implement in order to work with a global classified app. Using node.js I have also implemented a mock api server that the app can be tested with even before it has been implemented by the backend team.

In addition I also possess a good knowledge of technical security for iOS. From the early days of iOS I have been jailbreaking each iOS version and running different gnu tools on it by installing them with Cydia. In fact I had a seperate set of dotfiles for iOS and even made them open source a long time back (https://github.com/nodemaker/iShell). I can take a binary for iOS and then break its encryption to reveal the names of all its classes using a tool like class-dump and I inspected several popular apps like this. With libraries like MobileSubstrate I can also override a method in the binary and make it run arbitrary code. I also have some limited experience with IDA pro. When it comes to network security I also have good knowledge of the modern security protocols such as HTTPS and can make sure there are no loopholes in the networking implementation. I have also taken some penetration testing courses at ebay and am pretty good with finding exploits. 

To summarize, I would say I am an excellent candidate for a Senior iOS Engineer as I am an expert in this field and have good knowledge of everything related to iOS. I also have several references from my previous managers and you can read them on linkedin at (https://www.linkedin.com/in/sumeru-chatterjee-417b6b10). If you have any other questions I would be happy to jump on a quick phone call with you. Please email me at sumeru.chatterjee@me.com to set up a meeting. 

Cheers!
